---
title: Year 2015
redirect_from: 2016/01/12/year-2015/
---

The year 2015 was different. Every year is. Without further ado, a short overview of things that happened with me.

* Most of these are about what I did. But let's start with an obvious opposite one. I didn't write a single blog post, except for the yearly summary. I like writing, but I failed to make writing blog posts a priority in 2015.

* At the start of the year, I came up with [a rule](//twitter.com/mmozuras/status/556850323185496065):
"After I watch a movie or read a book, I must write 100 words about it."
That resulted in [17 movie reviews on Letterboxd](//letterboxd.com/mmozuras/films/reviews/year/2015/) and [13 book reviews on Goodreads](//goodreads.com/user/year_in_books/2015/36968510). But it started limiting my enjoyment as I would start thinking about reviewing while reading/watching. Dropped this experiment in June.

* [Read 28 books](//goodreads.com/user/year_in_books/2015/36968510). There's a lot of good ones among them. But let me recommend three. [Creativity, Inc.](//goodreads.com/book/show/18077903-creativity-inc) - if it was up to me to shape an organisation, Pixar would be my inspiration. [Capital in the Twenty-First Century](//goodreads.com/book/show/18736925-capital-in-the-twenty-first-century) - changed the way I look at economy and wealth. [Words of Radiance](//goodreads.com/book/show/17332218-words-of-radiance) - best fantasy book I've read in the last couple of years.

* For the first time, entered a running competition. Ran a half marathon at [Miško Trasa](http://miskotrasa.lt/) in 1:42:51.9, finishing 77th out of 147 runners in my group.

* Thanks to good habits, my weight remains the same. That's not a huge achievement for the average human being, but seing that I was 30kg heavier just a couple of years ago, it's worth noting.

* Gave presentations to multiple development communities for the total of seven times. One of them was in Riga, making it my first presentation outside of Lithuania.

* Grew a beard. Now I only need to acquire a cat and I would be a proper developer, just like [@tenderlove](//twitter.com/tenderlove).

* My title at Vinted changed to Head of Engineering. There's a lot of new challenges, both related to the continuously growing company size and my changing role. Challenging is fun.

* Continued [contributing to open-source](//github.com/mmozuras). [Pronto](//github.com/mmozuras/pronto) remained my main focus and is better than ever. It would not have gotten to this point without more than dozen amazing contributors.

Off to 2016!
