---
title: Year 2021
background: vicentina
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Time for another yearly reflection, the ninth one I put on this blog.

Life continued despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Here are some of the things that happened during 2021 in my life, in no particular order:

<!--more-->

* I've [read 21957 pages across 64 books](//goodreads.com/user/year_in_books/2021/36968510). That's the most ever for me. I don't see how I would want to read more. I've been fairly consistent in 2020 with my read-in-bed habit, and I've also listened to quite a few books on Audible. I feel that reading more would require a significant lifestyle change or time sacrifices in other areas. Here are five highlights I've selected from everything I've read:
  * [Team Topologies](//goodreads.com/review/show/3255505553). A must-read for anyone in a technical leadership role. This book is very concrete, practical and contains useful examples.
  * [The Spy and the Traitor](//goodreads.com/review/show/3694897869). A riveting true story about a KGB agent who turned spy. I couldn't stop and finished the last third in one sitting.
  * [Flowers for Algernon](//goodreads.com/review/show/3857646268). I sometimes find the classics disappointing and only anthropologically interesting. Not the case here. Flowers for Algernon is simply brilliant.
  * [Culture Map](//goodreads.com/review/show/3845047141). I found this book to be a practical guide to decoding cultural differences.
  * [Leviathan Falls](//goodreads.com/review/show/4378950038). The final book in The Expanse book series: both the journey and the destination were worth it.

* The three movies I've liked the most in 2021: [Dune](//letterboxd.com/mmozuras/film/dune-2021/), [Bo Burnham: Inside](//letterboxd.com/mmozuras/film/bo-burnham-inside/) and [The Last Duel](//letterboxd.com/mmozuras/film/the-last-duel-2021/). I watched fewer movies than most of the previous years, which could be the result of me reading more.
  * [Watchmen](//letterboxd.com/mmozuras/film/watchmen-2019): the best TV things I watched in 2021, even if I was late to the party.
  * [Returnal](//housemarque.com/games/returnal)): my favorite game of the year, out of the couple I've played this year. It's a brilliant combination of a haunting sci-fi atmosphere, compelling story, well-designed action, and just the right level of challenge.

* I feel like I took a year off with changes in personal life. In 2020, there were quite a few - marriage, moving into a bought flat, adopting two kittens. For 2021, my mind draws a blank for significant life events.
  * The good news is that my wife nor I tested positive for COVID in 2021.
  * We managed three trips. We went for a long weekend in Paris for our 1st wedding anniversary. We spent three weeks in beautiful Portugal. We visited [Expo 2020](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expo_2020) in Dubai, which included watching [Carlsen defend in world chess champion status](//fivethirtyeight.com/features/magnus-carlsen-wins-the-2021-world-chess-championship/).

* I've celebrated my ninth anniversary at Vinted. I would not have predicted I'd spend so many years at a single company. There continue to be excellent reasons not to look elsewhere, mainly the mission, the people, and the challenges.
  * [Vinted raised €250M equity round, which values the company at €3.5B](//techcrunch.com/2021/05/11/vinted-raises-303m-for-its-2nd-hand-clothes-marketplace-used-by-45m-and-now-valued-at-4-5b/).
  * I was named [Lithuania's CTO of the Year](//www.vz.lt/inovacijos/2021/10/08/pirmuojulietuvosmetu-ctotapovinted-technologiju-vadovasmmozuras). This achievement is, of course, first and foremost a team achievement, with me serving only as a figurehead for all the great work our engineering team has done.

* [Vilnius Tech Leads](//techleads.lt) continued with seven more events. We could finally do some of them in person. While I'm an introvert, I missed seeing members of the tech leadership community. You can find [the recordings on youtube](//www.youtube.com/watch?v=wUcXv3PcPhY&). Number-wise, Vilnius Tech Leads is now the second-largest Lithuanian meetup group on meetup.com, trailing only Agile Lietuva in member count.

* I wrote only two blog posts and appeared only in a couple of events as a speaker. Most of the topics I consider writing about are work-related. My work is leading an engineering organization of 350 people. This limits the content I can create. For one, I'm unsure how engaging other people would find the things that I find interesting. This might be an excuse, and I should simply try. Yet the second reason is that the most interesting stories are also stories that are more difficult to share publicly.

2021 is in the books. I didn't expect us to start 2022 still in the world of COVID-19. Yet, despite the continuing pandemic, [the world had a good year](//www.positive.news/society/what-went-right-in-2021-26-good-news-stories/
): renewables generated more electricity than fossil fuels in Europe, China defeated malaria, more nations strengthened LGBTQ+ rights, lab-grown meat hit important milestones, and many more. I had a pretty good year too. Off to an even better 2022.
