---
layout: post
title: Year 2013
---

The year 2013 was a heck of a year for me, mostly in a good way. In no particular order:

* Lost 26kg. Probably only weighted less when I was fourteen. Besides health benefits, this gave me a big self-confidence boost in my ability to achieve goals.
* After that, I started going on occasional morning runs. Went from never in my life running more than 2km to running 10km.
* Read a ton of great books, of which [Quiet by Susan Cain](//amazon.com/Quiet-Power-Introverts-World-Talking/dp/0307352153) was the one that influenced my thinking the most.
* Started learning to play Electric Guitar. Always wanted to, so I finally did. With the help of [Rocksmith 2014](//rocksmith.ubi.com/), it's going pretty well so far. Might even start playing Piano again.
* Since current gig is my first full-time [Ruby](//ruby-lang.org) one, spent a lot of time improving on that front - read four books, watched conference talks and [tapas](//rubytapas.com) and more. My focus might've been too singular though, which is something I'll try to improve on in 2014.
* Continued [contributing to open-source](//github.com/mmozuras), with [Pronto](//github.com/mmozuras/pronto) and [vim-github-comment](//github.com/mmozuras/vim-github-comment) being the ones that received most positive feedback.
* Gave two talks: [There Will Be JavaScript](//speakerdeck.com/mmozuras/there-will-be-javascript) and [Life Embetterment With Hundreds of Deployments a Week](//speakerdeck.com/mmozuras/life-embetterment-with-hundreds-of-deployments-a-week) (with [@spajus](//twitter.com/spajus)).
* Attended two conferences: [Git Merge](//git-merge.com/) and [Baruco](//baruco.org/). During both, I could've done better job of engaging with other attendees.
* Continued co-organising [VilniusJS](//vilniusjs.lt/) with [@edvinasbartkus](//twitter.com/edvinasbartkus). It remains being both easier and harder than expected.

In summary, I've never felt better in my own skin. But enough trumpeting my own horn. Time to get back to working on making year 2014 even better.
